# Forest_Fire
Hundreds of forest fires burned over 9 million acres of land in 2015, causing millions of dollars in property damage and immeasureable loss and pain to those families effected. Currently, satellite imagery of detected fires is not used in real-time to aid in forest fire protection. What if we could use that satellite imagery to aid in forest fire protection?

Each day, there are hundreds of satellite images from NASA's AQUA and TERRA satellites that are run through the UMD active fire product. The output of this active fire product is a data set that holds hundreds of 'detected fires' at given latitude/longitude coordinates.

Every year small accidental forest fires which are fueled by high temperatures, lightning, strong winds, or by human negligence, etc., cause a huge loss of precious natural reserves on protected lands. This calls for the early detection of fire to prevent such losses. Incorporating a wireless sensor network (WSN) in a forest facilitates detection of premature forest fires. Soft computing makes the event detection task in WSN’s much easier by analyzing the data collected from sensor nodes (temperature, light, sound and smoke). In this project we tried to do: detecting the events, recognizing patterns in the data related to different events and sucessfully classifying them into before-hand predictable classes. 
Current Status / Next steps
At this point in time, I am digging deeper into different AI algorithms that can be suitable to this thype of early detection. I have obtained pretty good results and believe that even better results could be obtained with additional steps. However, I am concerned about this project's usefulness. My advisor is publishing a paper based on this project and work extends this experiment results into the security issues detection(sensor faults, Intrusion attacts).
However, maintaining security and preventing intrusion in this approach remains a challenge. Anomalies like Malfunction and Intrusion corrupt the collected data from the field that may lead to mis-predictions of the main events in WSN’s. In the future paper we are trying to propose a Smart Intrusion Detection System (SIDS), which will be trained and tested using soft computing approaches. The SIDS will be evaluated using parameters such as accuracy, timeliness and trusted neighbor nodes. The result gained for each scenario will also be compared among different classifiers from supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms.
